How do you ensurethat input responsetime(keystrokeread, transmission of command, receiving at theserver) is minimized?

I have estimaed the time cost of each update and handle the update in advance. Therefore, the respon time can be more accurate.
By keep updatding avg_time in main function.


How do you minimizetheamount of traffic flowing back and forth between clients and server?

Use select function to get information from sender so that we don't need to keep call recv or send. This is done in get_client_action function.


How do you handle multiplecommands being sent from a client between two successive game board updates? 

Use select function to handle, with corresponding value passed in get_client_action, the server can know all the actions happened in all clients.


How do you ensurethat the same(consistent) state is broadcast to all clients?

Server will first get actions from client, when the period is reached. It will evaluate and send all the states. Therefore the state is updated at same time.
This is done in game_update function.


How do you ensurethe periodic broadcast updates happen as quickly as possible?

The game_update will first evaluate the client actions then save the state in a loop. The state will be send to clients in a for loop and when client get it,
client will refresh the interface at once.

How do you deal with clients that fail without harming the gamestate?

In get_client_action, if a client fail, the corresponding ID will be set to -1, which is a number that cannot be reached in normal case.
While evaluating clients, if serve find a client with ID = -1, it will jump over that client.


How do you handlethe graceful termination of the server when it receives a signal? 

The function term will handle the SIGTERM. It will disconnect all the clients then exit.


How do you deal with clients that unilaterally break theconnection to theserver?

The recv will return 0 in get_client_action. The server will regard the client as failed client.


How can you improvethe user interface without hurting performance?

Probably we can use a picture as the interface and just refresh the position of the client.
